From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes.
Oh, weekly discussion with web
developer and technologists. Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number three 33. Recorded live
Thursday, August 16th, 2012. Support for Hanselman.
This is provided by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details, app gesture,
PA k.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Brad Wilson
about using windows eight. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman. This
is another episode of Hansel
minutes. And today I'm talking
to my buddy, Brad Wilson.
How are you, sir? I
am awesome. How are you?
Well, I am I'm, I've
upgraded to windows eight, so
I don't know how that
makes me, that makes me,
that makes me a person
that just couldn't help himself
yesterday. It was about, I
don't know, two or three,
and I was working on
some stuff and I said,
you know, I have, I
have my windows seven desktop,
the ultimate, the ultimate developer
PC. I remember the one
that I made with, with
Jeff Atwood. And this is
the one where I'm actually
running your 30 inch monitor.
This is the monitor that
you sold me. Why did
I, why did you sell
me this monitor? You bought
a better one. I bought
a 27 inch iMac. Oh,
I remember. Okay. All in
one, all one monitor and
computer. Exactly. Okay. So I'm
running your 30 inch monitor
and then I've got my
24 and my 27 next
to it. And I had
been not upgrading to windows
eight, simply because it seemed
like it didn't make any
sense for a multiple monitor
machine. But you know, for
some reason I always upgrade
to a new operating systems
when there's like a no
reason to do it other
than it's new and shiny
or B there's some important
work that needs to be
done the next day. So
clearly I take a break
from that important work and
then upgrade my entire operating
system until work needs to
be done. Then I end
up, I seem to remember
upgrading to windows 3.1, like
the night before the SATs.
You know what I mean?
It's like, Oh, it's just,
I'll take a small break
here. Like somewhere in like
1990 or something like that.
I'll take a break and
install a beta operating system,
a tiny bit of procrastination
in your blood. Yeah. And
then inevitably that will destroy
the world and destroy my
computer and I'll lose everything.
But how long have you
been running windows eight? Since
about the time of the
first build conference last October.
Yeah, absolutely. I started running
that version. I had, I
guess it was on a,
on one of my laptops
to start with, but then
not long after that, I
bought the Samsung slate, which
is the commercial version of
the thing they gave away
at build. And I've been
running windows eight on that
ever since. I mean, it
showed up with windows seven
and it immediately got obliterated
to put windows eight on
it. Cause why would you
buy this nice, shiny touch
thing and not put windows
eight on it? I wouldn't
know. You paid your own
money for it. Cause we
didn't get, Yeah, I paid
my own money on sale,
Christina. There was a nice
Christmas sale to Microsoft store.
Wow. Okay. That's hardcore. I
didn't realize, I thought you
only been running it for
a couple of weeks. Nope.
While I've at home, I've
been running it on the
slate, which is kind of
like a home PC that
I take to work at
home. I still, you know,
the MSDN stuff just came
out yesterday. Cause we're talking
about this on August 16th. So
it just came out yesterday.
So this weekend I will
upgrade my gaming PC, which
has been the one that
I'm always reluctant to do
because it's, you know, I
always feel stimulate gaming is
this thing that makes PCs
very touchy. And so any
change seems bad. Yeah. Yeah.
Actually I, I tried to
run Diablo yesterday and it
told me that it thought
that my video card was
out of date and I
thought that was a very
kind of dramatic message. And
it's like, Oh Lord, here
I am running some two
year old video card driver.
And it was from March.
I'm like really? When did
a five month old video
driver become incredibly old and
dangerous to run? Well, apparently
they've been releasing drivers like
madman trying to sort of
get ready for windows eight.
So I would imagine that's
why it's out of date.
So should I just upgrade?
I mean, should I get,
get the new drivers? I
mean, would it, would it
be presumptive? I can install
windows seven drivers on windows
eight, Right? You can install
windows seven drivers. I'm assuming
you're using one of Nvidia
or ATI and they both
have windows eight drivers. Although
I think they consider them
to be beta drivers, but
they have, they have drivers
for windows eight. And in
addition to the ones that
are in the box, you
know, it depends on how
new your video card is.
Whether or not there's an
inbox driver. Cause I know
some of the really old
cards they used to be
like the old direct X
nine cards don't have drivers
because of course windows eight
wants you to have direct
X 10. So, So what
is that you just said,
inbox drivers will tell, tell
the listeners what an inbox
driver is and why I
should and how I would
make a decision based on
an inbox driver versus non.
When I use The phrase
inbox driver, what I mean
is the driver that comes
with windows eight. So there'll
be drivers for a whole
variety of hardware devices that
ship along with windows eight.
So you don't have to
download anything. You don't have
to run anybody's install CD.
The stuff will just be
there. Video drivers are kind
of the weird one for
me because you always feel
like, you know, Hey, I
could get 3% more performance.
If I go grab the
driver, you know, the latest
driver off of the manufacturer's
website. So, but other than
that, I generally run with
the driver that comes with
the iOS if it supports
it. So, you know, I
don't install a custom sound
car. Drivers are custom chips
that drivers or anything like
that. If everything's kind of
supported out of the box,
then I just leave it
alone. So those, so drivers
like that, if I can
get a windows installation to
run without installing drivers, then
presumably that that's going to
be a more, a more
stable system or the most
stable system possible. Right now,
the one thing it's kind
of odd with video drivers
in particular with windows eight,
you might not realize you're
running a less than optimal
driver is the, the sort
of builtin base driver, which
I think they call Microsoft
base video. Now actually we'll
run, you know, the full
resolution of your monitor. You
should be able to tell
that, Hey, I'm running the
builtin video driver and not
the real one, cause it's
running me at 10 24
or something like that. But
the builtin driver will run
pretty much anything your graphics
card can do and your
monitor can do it just
won't necessarily be hardware accelerated.
So you do have to
kind of look and check
to make sure that it's
when you look inside of
device manager, that it says,
you know, yeah, my video
card is an Nvidia or
an HCI or an Intel
or whatever it is you
have as opposed to the
Microsoft based video driver. Hmm.
Okay. So I just I'm
clicking around here and I
just checked, it says my
Nvidia GTX four 70 is
running. It says, it says
Nvidia. And then it says
Microsoft corporation. So it's actually
saying that windows, Sorry. That
means you're running. The driver
that came in windows. It
was written are certified by
us basically. Okay. But then
it also says WDM, which
I think is like windows
device driver model, but it
says WDM 1.2. And that
makes me feel like maybe
that's isn't there a 1.3
that might be oldish. So
I might be running the
ones that came with windows
seven and then I upgrade
The WDM came about in
Vista. And so when you
see WDM 1.0, that's a
Vista era driver and WDM
1.1 is a windows seven
era driver. And 1.2 is
a windows eight era driver.
So I am, I do
have new stuff then. Yeah,
you do have the new
stuff. Okay. So I've got
the newest inbox drivers. So
I've got the drivers that
came with windows and presumably
for doing work about, you
know, desktop work and running
around this will be fine.
But if I want to
get the new stuff, I
would in the upgrade and
get the beta drivers. But
these are done looking at
the beta drivers here and
it says June 27th for Nvidia.
So I should probably I'm
think I'll probably wait a
couple of months for a
released version of a driver
from Nvidia. And that would
give me, you know, X
number of percentage, more umph
in Diablo or whatever I
presume It will also give
you more options like a
Nvidia and ATI, both shipped
with special applications that when
you right click, you got
like the hanging out the
Nvidia control panel or the
HCI command center or whatever
they call it. And so
running their drivers might give
you additional software options as
well. The video drivers that
come with windows eight are
probably, you know, they're good
for the stuff that's built
into windows eight, but they
might not have any of
the advanced tweaking you could
do with the custom driver.
Okay. That makes sense. Yeah.
When I installed a windows
eight, I kind of thought
about just like, cause I
upgraded, I did actually I
did two installs. So my
desk, my desktop, I upgraded
from windows seven, my laptop,
I torched it because I
just wanted it to be
super fresh. Interestingly on my
desktop, which was an upgrade,
I only had 20 gigs
of a hard drive left.
I did the upgrade and
then I ran disk cleanup
and I have 65 gigs
left. So something fresh happened
during the upgrade. I don't
know if they cleaned up
the side by side folders
or something, but I ended
up with 40 gigs, more
space than I had when
I was done. So when
I went through what I
did right before I upgraded,
I said to myself, what
kind of controversial things are
running in the tray? You
know what I mean? I
thought about like, you know,
DVD drivers and magic ISO,
which is a ISO mounting
thing and anything I thought
that would make it unstable.
You know, it's kind of
like preempting the little, the
little thing that would say
you really shouldn't be running
this. You should turn it
off for now while you
do the upgrade. You know,
stuff that I knew would
be a bad idea. And
once I did that, I
didn't end up with any,
anything. It didn't complain about
any of my software, which
I thought was cool. Yeah.
I've found most, everything is
pretty compatible. The magic ISO
one is interesting because there's
ISO mounting in the box.
And what does eight now?
So you don't have to
have any custom software for
that. Yeah. So I can
just double click on an
ISO or actually a VHD
and Mount it directly without
him do anything. They just
show up as files and
explore. And there's a, you
click on them and there's
a Mt menu in the
year. You go off and
do your thing. So that
worked really well. What else
do I have to tell
with? Well, one of the
things that I thought was
kind of cool was actually
I joked about this with
a buddy of mine saying
that even though Metro or
not, Metro, whatever we call
it now windows store thing,
windows, tile, and box applications
are even though they are
dramatic and that the start
menu is gone, the, the
task manager is a good
enough reason to upgrade. Like
literally the, the task manager,
which I ended up keeping
open on another monitor all
the time anyway is so
much more useful now that
you might as well just
upgrade your entire operating system
to get a better task
manager. It has a startup
tab. Now, have you seen
this? I've seen a little
bit of it. So if
you go to the startup
tab, there is a new,
a new column called startup
impact. And it tells you
whether or not the application
will slow down your applications,
your, your windows rebooting. You
should do that right now,
actually, you know, you're in
front of your machine, Microsoft.
Right? Right. So then look
at all the software. I
feel like it says Google
drive is high startup impact.
So that's cool. So I
just disable, I right. Click
disable that Dropbox. Okay. That
makes sense. Skype was slowing
down my machine. So there's
lots of different pieces of
software that have been warning
me. Like for example, I
don't know if it's a
windows eight thing. It's probably
an office thing, but outlook
earlier today said, there's an
add in that's making outlook
start slowly. I was like,
Oh, that's awesome. So it
says, you want to take
this, add in that, that,
that added one second of
time to your, your outlook
running. And do you want
to slow it down and
turn it off? And then
the same thing happened in,
I E remember I nine
at that feature I learned,
I launched E and I
says, this one ad and
you have, is making it
take an extra second to
load. So I disabled Java
and one other, one other
add on. So kind of
like that, that seems to
be the new thing is
to have software tell you
that some other software, you
know, is slowing down Tired
of getting blamed for like,
Oh man, I don't look
at sofa now. It's not
really outlook. It's that indexing
add on you. That's interesting
because visual studio does that
now outlook does it windows
it. And they're all just
basically saying it's not our
fault is that the it's
not our fault feature. And
apparently it must be. I
like that. So you've been
running this way longer than
I have. And I, I
tweeted yesterday that I was
upgrading and I think it
was somebody else somebody said,
well, call us in a
week when you've used it
without a touchscreen. Cause they
were declaring that windows eight
was unusable without a touchscreen.
You have a touch. It
is ridiculous. Yeah. That's a
ridiculous statement. That's a statement
by somebody who used it.
And interesting. I, My, my
main machine at work is
a, is a three monitor
machine running windows eight and
no touch on any monitors.
And I love it. I
would not go back to
windows seven at all. Really
why? Well, so first of
all, the, the thing that
like people say it's only
good for touch. All I
can think is they think
that the start screen is
a touch centric thing. It
works great with a mouse,
all the things that I'm
used to being able to
do with a keyboard, like
I hit the star key
and start typing program names
and they come up. I
like the way they come
up a lot better than
in windows seven. I like
the start screen as an
organization metaphor much better than
the start menu and everything
is faster. I mean, I
know it's kind of a
subjective measurement, but the thing
boots faster, the thing runs
software faster. It just feels
better. It seemed on my
laptop. I noticed that it
seems to be using the
laptop more effectively. And I
tried to figure out why
and saw that the virtual
memory was smaller than in
windows seven. It automatically made
my swap file less because
it knew I had 12
gigs of Ram because I
know my numbers. I know
the numbers that I set
the thing to. And somehow
those numbers changed. It seems
to have better caching. I'm
not sure why or how.
Yeah. That's clearly doing, you
know, a lot better, pretty
much every app that I
run seems to run better
in windows eight. You know,
one thing I've noticed also
is that they're moving towards
a kind of, it just
works attitude. This is my
opinion. But if you go
to the task manager by
default, it only shows one
CPU. Like I've got six
cores and 12 logical processors.
And I actually have to
right. Click and say change
to logical processors. If I
want to see which processors
being slow, are you in
task manager? So right. Click
on CPU and say change
graph to logical processors. Yep.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Isn't
that cool? Yeah. There's a
bunch of things that are
blowing me away about, about
this as well. So one
of them, if you, if
you, where is it view
if you right. Click, yeah,
try this, check this out.
So the left hand side
there, which is performance and
you've got CPU memory and
all that stuff, right? Click
on that and say summary
view. You see how it
collapses and makes this stack
of little tiny spark lines.
Then you can take that
and just shut it off
in the corner. So now
you've get kind of like
free little spark, you know,
active sparklines and then if
you just double click on
any one of them, it
will show you what's going
on and then you double
click away and it will
collapse again. So like right
now I can see my
C drive is working hard,
double click. Okay. And it
says average response time, five
milliseconds. It's writing, edit a
megabyte a second right now
and then I double click
and then it goes away
again and that cool. That's
pretty cool. And then if
you go to processes, check
this out, go to processes
and then you know how
you've got CPU and we
always sort by CPU, you
can actually short by network
now or short by disk.
So short by disc right
now. Okay. So here we
go. It looks like windows
search is what's taking up
my disc right now. So,
you know, when I heard,
if I hear the disc,
I can't, it's an SSD,
but theoretically, if I hear
the disc moving, I can
say, well, wait a second,
go to task manager, sort
by disc. I can see
that right now. My disc
is being indexed. That's very
useful. Yeah. It's super useful.
I think you can. Can
you, you know, I've always
wanted to find out what
services are running. Let me
see here. I'm going to
start by name and then
I can go to, here
you go, service host. This
is cool. So you see
how, what, y'all the surface
hosts like blue, blue gears,
you open, open them up
and you can actually see
the services now running inside
your service host and then
right. Click on the individual
service and stop it from
inside task manager in the
process of, yeah. And what's
even cooler is the service
host tells you what context
it's running in, such as
these services are running as
local system or local service.
So for the, for the
nerdly among us who want
to know, you know, what
credentials is this service running
under? You know, what can
this service actually do? Oh,
this isn't useful information so
that when I see services,
I see one, two, three,
four, five, six, seven, eight,
nine, 10 different services right
next to them. They say
services calling local service service,
host calling local service network,
restricted service, host, colon and
local service. No impersonation. I
see one here that says
local service, no network. Right?
So the things running in
there don't don't have access
to send any network. Well,
that's cool. I also noticed
that you've got a categorization.
So it says apps, background
processes, and windows processes. It's
kind of like, don't mess
with this stuff. I assume
there are differentiation there between
an app and a background
process is whether or not
the thing has a window.
I see, I see Google
Chrome as an app. And
then I see like 40
Google chromes as backdrop processes.
Right. But I see like
Google drive and Google crashy
for Google crash handlers as
a background process. Yeah, yeah.
Yeah. Interesting. You know, and,
and I'm a hockey guy.
So I was really about,
about the whole, I don't
get, I don't know what
to call it the whole
not windows classic. I'm sure
they'll email us and tell
us all what to say.
I have no idea what
the, the terms are. Now.
I know that there's that
whole Metro thing, but I
hit window X, have you
used window X? I love
window X. It's crazy. Because
window X was a moderately
useful and hot key before
it would bring up the
mobility center. And the only
purpose for window X before
was you'd hit window X
and you'd say presenting. And
that was the, you know,
don't fall asleep button. And
it's helpful only for people
who are presenting or maybe
they're going to change their,
whether they're PR whether they're
projecting or whether they are
in a certain power mode.
Right? Yup. Yup. But the
first kind of hour of
using windows eight, I would
hit window and I go
over into like wacky boxes
and tiles world. And I
type in device manager, let
me do it right now.
So I just typed in
device manager and I'm frustrated
because it's not showing up.
Cause device manager and windows
eight is not an app.
Right? I mean, it is
an app. It's just like
it was before, except they
separate apps, settings and files.
So when you hit windows,
that brings up apps, windows
w that brings up settings
and you hit windows F
that brings up files. And
I kept having to remember,
and that was really frustrating
to me. Then I hit
window X. And what happens
when you hit windows X
in windows eight Brings up
a nice little right click
menu, basically of all your
useful shortcuts, power options event,
viewer, device manager, some great
stuff. Like basically the, the
power users start menu. And
ironically, it shows up in
the lower left corner where
the start menu used to
show up. You can also
get it by right clicking.
You know, if you hover
down into the left corner
to see the start icon
and you right. Click you'll
get the menu. Oh, okay.
So right now, if I
hover, meaning I sh like
I throw the mouse into
the corner, I get a
little picture of the start
menu, right? Click program files,
power options event, viewer device
manager, disk management, command prompt,
and command prompt admin. And
as I remember, there's a
way to a, not a
supported way, but there is
a way to hack into
that menu that Rafael Rivera
figured out. Yeah. Third party
tool out that I saw
that allows you to put
stuff there. Cause it's all,
they're all just shortcuts on
your, on your disc. But
windows seems to be particular
about which one is it?
Those shortcuts that'll actually listened
to. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Window
X seems to be something
that it's, it's not a
start menu. It's a quick
launcher of some kind, but
it's the one that I
find myself using the most.
And then I've also just
gone and pinned all the
different things to my desktop.
So I'm spending probably 85,
90% of my time in
the desktop. I rarely see
the boxes in whatever menu
do you spend your time
over there at all? And
the windows eight menu On
my desktop PC that doesn't
have touch. I really don't
spend a whole lot of
time with that menu up.
I it's pretty much all
desktop on my sleep when
I'm at home. It depends
on how I'm using it,
right. If I'm using it
for development, then that'd be
sitting at the desktop. But
if I'm using it, cause
I'm sitting on the couch
and I'm surfing the web,
then I'll use the apps
on the start menu because
they're more touch friendly speaking.
When I, when I launched
the start menu, the first
time on my, on my
30 inch or your previously
your 30 inch, I was
immediately like, Oh man, you
know, everything's so big. I
want to see more stuff.
I want more, I want
to, I want to make
use of all these pixels.
So I was goofing around
and I didn't realize this,
but when I went to
the lower, the lower corner
of the lower right corner,
that's where you get settings.
So it's apps in the
lower left settings in the
lower, right. So I click
on that and I click
on settings. And I don't
know if you've seen this
before or not. If you
go to settings and then
you click on tiles, there's
a button or switch that
says show more tiles, have
you, if you've made the
change to this setting? Oh
no, I've never even seen
this before. Dude. You're going
to love this. So lower
right. Corner settings tiles, or
you just hit when or
windows C for charms, go
to settings and watch what
happens when you hit show
more tiles. That's pretty cool.
It shifts everything up to
give you more space. Right?
Exactly. So it basically basically
says use all available space
vertically. And then suddenly I
can actually on my 30
inch monitor without making the
tiles small, I can see
effectively everything that I would
want to run. So it's
kinda like almost like mission
control on a Mac. And
then of course, you know
that you can right. Click
on any application and then
say smaller or larger. So
I took some of these
apps that I don't really
care about. Like here I've
got messaging. Messaging is like
the Facebook chat application. It
lets you chat with windows
live and Facebook, but it's
taking up double-wide and that's
frustrating. So I right click
on it and then I
click smaller and then I
turn it into a half
size tile and then I'll
drag it somewhere else. I
don't have to look at
it all the time. You
can also turn off. If,
if a tile is displaying
information, you don't want it
to display. You can turn
off live tiles as well,
but that same way. Oh,
is that how I can
make it stop showing me
your face? You know, I'm
your best Facebook friend. It's
True. Apparently Facebook has decided
and it's just like, Oh,
there's Pat again. Yeah. It's
showing my, my, my people
all the time. And every
once in a while, like
why is this person showing
up? It's a, I don't
know how it's making those
decisions, but it is kind
of funny though, because I'll
see people I haven't seen
in a while and I'll
be like, Oh, there's there's
so, and so he's showing
up on my desktop there.
And it's funny. I, the
way I arrange my start,
my users dramatically different between
my desktop PC and my
slate because there's apps, you
know, like the builtin apps
that come with it that
I use on the slate
quite a bit that I
hardly ever use on my
desktop. People who are good
example of one, when I'm
at work, people is not
really something I want to
do while I'm at work.
So I just get rid
of it entirely. But I
use it a lot at
home because of course it
keeps me up to date
on Facebook and Twitter and
all that stuff. So it's
pretty cool that I'm finding
that, that on my desktop,
which is the one with
the 30 inch monitor, I'm
more likely to use the,
the news stuff. Like I'll
kinda like lean back and
slouch and I'll read the
news, I'll read like a
news app. And I also
found another news app that's
called popular science. So you
seen the popular science app.
It's almost like kind of
like the verge or something,
but it's focused just on
science stuff. And it's, I
like apps that will give
me like a graphic that,
that is live. So I'm,
I'm leaning towards lifestyle apps
more than non lifestyle apps.
I'm not really interested in
an app that shows a
pretty picture if it's not
changing that picture all the
time. So I'm finding that
I'm rearranging my stuff mostly
into news. So I've, I've
got like six or seven
news apps. I've got like
an NBC news and, and
you a USA today and
popular science and even the
Wikipedia app will give you
like a featured article. So
I'll make this like super
dashboard of news, which I
didn't realize that I'm not,
I, it's funny. I get
those talks from productivity and
I tell people exactly not
to do that. And I've
gone and I've taken all
this new operating system and
rather than making it totally
personal, I've made it totally
impersonal and filled it with
news and news information and
stocks and stuff and making
all my decisions based on
what can this thing show
me. I noticed also, do
you use the mail app?
Cause there's like, there's, I've
got outlook 2013, but then
there's the, the mail application,
which is a whole other
thing. Hi, don't really use
the mail app. I use
the calendar app a lot.
And in fact, one of
the best things about windows
eight for me is I've
hooked my calendar up to
all of my calendars, right?
My personal calendar, Gmail, my
work calendar work. And then
when the computer's locked and
I come back to it
and I need to go
to a meeting, whereas before
I need to have to
unlock it, to figure out
where I'm going, or maybe
pull out my phone, I
can just wake the screen
up. And it tells me
what my next meeting is
right there on the lock
screen. It tells me to
go, which is, I think
is like one of those
features, you don't realize how
awesome it is until you
use it all the time.
Cause I mean, think about
what I would have to
do before. It's like, you
have to take control of
the lead and you have
to type in your password
and then you have to
go find out outlook. You
have to launch outlook. You
have to, is it in
the right view, go into
the calendar view. They'll figure
out what's next. And now
I just look at the
screen and there it is
Do do huh. Okay. And
it will merge, it will
merge them. Like I don't
want to merge stuff and
accidentally ended up like having
all my context merged. I
want to be able to
turn stuff on and off.
Yeah. What's nice about the
calendar is you, you basically
assign different colors. And so
you can tell, like I
have all my work stuff
is one color and all
my personal stuff is another.
So you can see which
things on my calendar, you
know, came from where, Okay,
I'm doing that right now.
Yeah. I could see the
calendar being useful. Particularly if
I updated like my kitchen
PC, you know, like the
machine we use in the
kitchen for family calendars and
stuff. But I don't know.
I don't think I could
see myself using the mail
app Was a little bit
under featured for me. It's
just, it's, it's like 80%
of the way there, but
the 20% that it's missing
for me. Cause I feel
like I'm a power user
is enough to make it
may not want to use
it. Yeah. Yeah. I agree.
I I've I've I find
that it's maybe, maybe my
family could use it, but
for, for, for work, I
don't, I don't see it
happening. Although ironically, I end
up leaving it open, not
open rather, but like on
the, on the, the tile
menu, the windows eight menu,
because I like the live
tile. Like I want to
see that I've got a
male or I want to
see some subject of the
next male, but I don't
want to click on the
app. I'd like to like
click on it and go
to outlook. You know what
I mean? Right, right. Yeah.
Have you written any apps
yet? I have not written
any apps for the story
yet. I, I honestly I
keep, I keep wanting to
come up with something and
I don't really have any
good ideas in the back
of my head, which, you
know, I guess that's a
stopping point or not, but
yeah, I'm going to take
baby smash and poured it
over my, my, if for
listeners who aren't familiar, baby
smashes an app, I use
to teach myself XAML and
you can get it for
free@babysmash.com. It's good for toddlers.
So I thought that'd be
fun to port, baby smash
to a windows eight. And
I thought I'd do it
twice, once in XAML and
C-sharp and once in a
HTML five and JavaScript. Oh,
that'd be fun. Yeah. If
you want to work on
that with me, I'm kind
of figuring out something, but
yeah. I mean, people are
writing apps so fast. It's
like every time I come
up with an idea, like
I wanted to do a
flight tracker I'm okay. That
was done already. Flight trackers
finished. So it's like how,
you know, I gotta have
that killer idea. Yeah. And
I think a baby smash
work well, because you know,
people will get a, get
a slate, like the Samsung
or maybe the surface when
it comes out and you
know, kind of like people
would use, you had a
version for the iPad. Yeah,
buddy. I did an iPad
version and I'm thinking also
it's time for toddler smash.
My kids are old enough
now that I want to
make more of a typewriter
game. So I think I
might use the opportunity, not
just to learn a windows
eight development, but also update
it to something, something a
little more useful for my
kids. Cause they're older. Yeah.
That seems, that seems like
a good idea. Yeah. Cool.
Alright. Well, thanks for chatting
with me about windows eight.
I know that you were
you're, you're kind of a
Mac guy and that you
would give it to me
straight. No, it's funny. I
have a, been a Mac
guy for a long time,
but I currently don't have
any Mac PCs. I just
sold my iMac about six
months ago to build my
gaming desktop PC. She sold
the Mac to buy a
Rahar gaming gaming rig. Cause
you were like, you were
like the head of like
the Mac user group or
whatever. Like when the Microsoft
max at Microsoft mailing list,
you were so active on
that. No, I'm still on
the list, but I it's
just, it's just a weird
place for me right now.
I just don't have any
Macs. I don't, I don't
see it getting any in
the near future either because
as nice as the, as
the retina MacBook pro is,
you know, I'm, I'm sort
of anticipating that the surface
pro is going to have
roughly the same DPI and
touchscreen. So it's hard for
me to invest in, you
know, a fairly expensive laptop,
but doesn't have the touch
when you know, we're here
in windows eight, kind of
an understandable thing. Why Apple
doesn't see it as important
as we do. So, you
know, it's not like I
fault them for not making
a touch screen laptop. Doesn't
have all these features, but
you know, this is kind
of where I, my bread
and butter is. And so,
you know, five years ago
you could say a Mac
book pro is the best
windows, this a laptop or
the best windows seven laptop.
It's certainly not going to
be true for windows eight.
Well, I've got, I've got,
what is it? What's the
new lion mountain lion. I've
got mountain lion on my
Mac book pro and I
have windows eight in a,
in a, in a VM
if I need it, but
I'm, I'm not ready to
put windows eight on my
Mac. And I'm still, I
think that the jury is
still out as far as
like, who's gonna, who's gonna
win, but I I've, I've
got a line on an
ultra book, which is like
a P a MacBook air
PC and ultra book is
going to be, I'm going
to be interested to see
if we can make hardware
that is as good as
the Mac hardware. That would
be pretty awesome. No, I
have a, you know, I
haven't obviously seen the surface
cause I learned about it
at the same time everybody
else. And it's a pretty
secret thing, but I have
faith that the surface is
going to be a pretty
nice PC. Yeah. Yeah. Well,
in, in closing, I'll tell
you a funny story where
I took my to best
buy to shore some of
the new thin laptops, cause
she's got an old Dell
that's pretty fat and she's
like, well, how do I
know if it's a good
PC or not? And I
was like, well, how can
I explain this in a
really simple way that that
will just, just make sense?
And I said, flip the
laptop over. And the fewer
seams you see underneath, it's
the, probably the better made
it is. So we just
basically spent an afternoon flipping.
It's like, you know, that
way that you tell the
sex of a turtle is
flip it over and like,
look at the way that
the, the, the, the tr
underneath the turtle shell is,
it's the same thing with
F with PCs. You know,
the smoother that the, the
bottom of the PC is
the better it is now.
She found that to be
a very, she found that
to be a very good,
good way to tell. Cool.
Thanks for talking to me,
Brad. Yeah, it was fun.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes, and we'll
see you again next week.
.